version=pmwiki-2.2.0 ordered=1 urlencoded=1
agent=Mozilla/5.0 (X11; U; Linux i686; en-US; rv:1.9.0.8) Gecko/2009032711 Ubuntu/8.10 (intrepid) Firefox/3.0.8
author=Colin Powell
charset=ISO-8859-1
csum=
ctime=1238694746
host=127.0.0.1
name=Meetings.NotesFebruary192009
rev=1
targets=
text=! Castine Friends & Neighbors Meeting Notes%0a!! Thursday, February 19, 2009 from 4:00 - 5:30 p.m. at Emerson Hall%0a%0aAttended by: Gene Bland, George Bland, Brooke Tenney, Gil Tenney, Liddy Fitzgerald, Ann Miller, Ann Romans, Barbara Griffiths, Colin Powell, Emma Sweet%0a%0a!! Grant Proposal Update%0a* Gil updated the group on what he has done for the Health Peninsula grant of $1,000. He said he would be alright being the contact person. Brooke noted that HP would act as the fiscal agent for any funds. The group also discussed the need to find someone willing to act as a research coordinator, which is where the bulk of the funds would go.%0a%0a!! Swing Into Action Ideas%0a* Ice skating rink%0a** Both Ann Miller and Brooke said the group in charge of this event encountered difficulties plowing it. We decided action had been taken too late in the season and will come back to it if there's a cold snap or next winter.%0a* Keeping People in Their Homes%0a** The group had a long discussion over the need for transportation and the possible hurdles. Both Ann Miller and Barbara Griffiths said they have done similar work in the past and would be happy to continue to work towards a more complete transportation system. Barbara noted that BAHR provides medical service, though they have also encountered many hurdles, number one is lack of volunteer time. She proposed trying to help grow BAHR rather than reinvent the wheel. '''Task force: Barbara Griffiths & Ann Miller.'''%0a** A discussion on providing meals for people circled around similar issues from the previous meeting, though Emma proposed the idea of making it a subscription service. The idea being that people would only receive food so long as they are subscribed. Also noted that many similar things have been organized in the past but none seem to gain critical mass to keep going. Ann Romans also noted that grant proposal at library to reach out to homebound individuals could help find more need in community for home delivery. '''Task force: Gene Bland will talk to Berna Kaserian'''%0a* Community and School Gardens%0a** No reps from Adams School were present, so no discussion on school garden programs. The group talked again about community gardens, though luke warm reception lead to no one wanting to take the reigns. Issues discussed were location (Conservation land at Tarratine/Battle and just off-neck). The group also discussed the issue that most people in Castine have their own space for garden. '''Task force: No one.'''%0a* Mapping Overlapping Needs with Other Communities%0a** Discussion of this centered around the research coordinator position proposed by the grant. The group discussed the need to connect with other F&N groups in the area and to discover what is already being done in the area. Gil brought one example to the group of Faith in Action, which provides volunteer services for the elderly and disabled of Hancock County ([[http://fiacommmunityconnection.org]].) Looking for potential coordinators, the group came up with Sarah O'Malley and Maggie Williams. It was not established who would talk with those people. '''Task force: Gil Tenney.'''%0a* Farmer's Market%0a** Colin said he has been speaking with Sarah O'Malley who has some experience with farmer's markets. The current hurdle is finding a location. In an email to Colin, Sarah suggested the Health Center, primarily because markets cannot be held on public land. Colin is looking into that statue. Everyone seemed excited about the market idea and thought the Health Center was a good idea. '''Task force: Colin Powell, Emma Sweet, (possibly Sarah O'Malley)'''%0a* Ferry Service%0a** Primarily an idea from Gerry Bryan of Brooksville, the group did not discuss this much. Emma put forward the issue of a ferry from Castine to West Brooksville not being very useful for Castiners. She put forward the idea of one to Buck's Harbor, despite the longer trip. George half-joked that bikes could be left at the West Brooksville landing to allow people to get around.%0a%0a!! Bubble Up Ideas%0a* Community Potluck%0a** Ann Romans noted that there used to be a regular community potluck in Castine. She put forward the idea of trying to start one up again. It used to be in the Unitarian church, though she suggested it could also be in Emerson Hall.%0a* Emerson Hall Renovations%0a** George noted that he is quite serious about uncovering what is being done to maintain and upgrade Emerson Hall's second floor. Ann Miller said some work has been done and that the town is working on it. Colin suggested drawing up a list of current and potential uses of the space before or after talking to selectmen to get and idea of what should be done. A number of people noted it just needs a good cleaning.%0a%0a!! General communications%0a* Gene noted that the number of people with a specific conflict at the 4 p.m. time was small enough that meetings could be held then.%0a* Colin put forward the idea of putting a regular update on the F&N group in the Patriot. Brooke suggested just writing something for the Around Castine section. Colin offered to take this on.%0a%0a!! Next meeting: March 5, 2009 from 4 - 5:30 p.m. at Witherle Memorial Library
time=1238694746
author:1238694746=Colin Powell
diff:1238694746:1238694746:=1,34d0%0a%3c ! Castine Friends & Neighbors Meeting Notes%0a%3c !! Thursday, February 19, 2009 from 4:00 - 5:30 p.m. at Emerson Hall%0a%3c %0a%3c Attended by: Gene Bland, George Bland, Brooke Tenney, Gil Tenney, Liddy Fitzgerald, Ann Miller, Ann Romans, Barbara Griffiths, Colin Powell, Emma Sweet%0a%3c %0a%3c !! Grant Proposal Update%0a%3c * Gil updated the group on what he has done for the Health Peninsula grant of $1,000. He said he would be alright being the contact person. Brooke noted that HP would act as the fiscal agent for any funds. The group also discussed the need to find someone willing to act as a research coordinator, which is where the bulk of the funds would go.%0a%3c %0a%3c !! Swing Into Action Ideas%0a%3c * Ice skating rink%0a%3c ** Both Ann Miller and Brooke said the group in charge of this event encountered difficulties plowing it. We decided action had been taken too late in the season and will come back to it if there's a cold snap or next winter.%0a%3c * Keeping People in Their Homes%0a%3c ** The group had a long discussion over the need for transportation and the possible hurdles. Both Ann Miller and Barbara Griffiths said they have done similar work in the past and would be happy to continue to work towards a more complete transportation system. Barbara noted that BAHR provides medical service, though they have also encountered many hurdles, number one is lack of volunteer time. She proposed trying to help grow BAHR rather than reinvent the wheel. '''Task force: Barbara Griffiths & Ann Miller.'''%0a%3c ** A discussion on providing meals for people circled around similar issues from the previous meeting, though Emma proposed the idea of making it a subscription service. The idea being that people would only receive food so long as they are subscribed. Also noted that many similar things have been organized in the past but none seem to gain critical mass to keep going. Ann Romans also noted that grant proposal at library to reach out to homebound individuals could help find more need in community for home delivery. '''Task force: Gene Bland will talk to Berna Kaserian'''%0a%3c * Community and School Gardens%0a%3c ** No reps from Adams School were present, so no discussion on school garden programs. The group talked again about community gardens, though luke warm reception lead to no one wanting to take the reigns. Issues discussed were location (Conservation land at Tarratine/Battle and just off-neck). The group also discussed the issue that most people in Castine have their own space for garden. '''Task force: No one.'''%0a%3c * Mapping Overlapping Needs with Other Communities%0a%3c ** Discussion of this centered around the research coordinator position proposed by the grant. The group discussed the need to connect with other F&N groups in the area and to discover what is already being done in the area. Gil brought one example to the group of Faith in Action, which provides volunteer services for the elderly and disabled of Hancock County ([[http://fiacommmunityconnection.org]].) Looking for potential coordinators, the group came up with Sarah O'Malley and Maggie Williams. It was not established who would talk with those people. '''Task force: Gil Tenney.'''%0a%3c * Farmer's Market%0a%3c ** Colin said he has been speaking with Sarah O'Malley who has some experience with farmer's markets. The current hurdle is finding a location. In an email to Colin, Sarah suggested the Health Center, primarily because markets cannot be held on public land. Colin is looking into that statue. Everyone seemed excited about the market idea and thought the Health Center was a good idea. '''Task force: Colin Powell, Emma Sweet, (possibly Sarah O'Malley)'''%0a%3c * Ferry Service%0a%3c ** Primarily an idea from Gerry Bryan of Brooksville, the group did not discuss this much. Emma put forward the issue of a ferry from Castine to West Brooksville not being very useful for Castiners. She put forward the idea of one to Buck's Harbor, despite the longer trip. George half-joked that bikes could be left at the West Brooksville landing to allow people to get around.%0a%3c %0a%3c !! Bubble Up Ideas%0a%3c * Community Potluck%0a%3c ** Ann Romans noted that there used to be a regular community potluck in Castine. She put forward the idea of trying to start one up again. It used to be in the Unitarian church, though she suggested it could also be in Emerson Hall.%0a%3c * Emerson Hall Renovations%0a%3c ** George noted that he is quite serious about uncovering what is being done to maintain and upgrade Emerson Hall's second floor. Ann Miller said some work has been done and that the town is working on it. Colin suggested drawing up a list of current and potential uses of the space before or after talking to selectmen to get and idea of what should be done. A number of people noted it just needs a good cleaning.%0a%3c %0a%3c !! General communications%0a%3c * Gene noted that the number of people with a specific conflict at the 4 p.m. time was small enough that meetings could be held then.%0a%3c * Colin put forward the idea of putting a regular update on the F&N group in the Patriot. Brooke suggested just writing something for the Around Castine section. Colin offered to take this on.%0a%3c %0a%3c !! Next meeting: March 5, 2009 from 4 - 5:30 p.m. at Witherle Memorial Library%0a\ No newline at end of file%0a
host:1238694746=127.0.0.1
