version=pmwiki-2.2.0 ordered=1 urlencoded=1
agent=Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; U; Intel Mac OS X 10.4; en-US; rv:1.9.0.6) Gecko/2009011912 Firefox/3.0.6
author=Colin Powell
charset=ISO-8859-1
csum=Added styling
ctime=1239990870
host=127.0.0.1
name=Meetings.MinutesApril162009
rev=3
targets=
text=! Castine Friends & Neighbors Meeting of Thursday, April 16, 2009%0a!! Minutes%0a%0aWe were convened at 4:12 p.m. by the grand vizier.%0aPresent: Anne Romans, Emma Sweet, Gene Bland, Gil Tenney, Betsy Lieser, Brooke Tenney, George Bland; Colin Powell.  Barbara Griffiths was ill; Ann Miller was otherwise engaged but reportedly “moving forward.”%0a%0aRather than focusing on projects (the Farmers’ Market group had just met), discussion in this meeting addressed the following points:%0a%0a# ''Maggie’s Future Emphasis and Report.''  Gil has received emails from Maggie requesting the group’s advice about her preferred emphasis at this point.  Should she/we look into further Cabot funding?  Maggie feels she can see further work to be done on the BH Peninsula dimension of “care-share.”  Consensus was that, with her report due May 15, we should await the report, making a determination about further paid work at that point.  If we have the opportunity to shape the sort of report we want from Maggie, one thought was that it would be helpful if Maggie could include a comprehensive Directory of BH Peninsula F&N leadrs/mtg schedules/projects and their leaders.  (Inter-town cooperation is a largely new phenomenon and should be easy to do; such a directory will assist everyone.)%0a# ''What Is “Friends and Neighbors”?''  Colin voiced some questions, arising from a concern that the group may be in a rut already, perhaps not doing its presumed job correctly, and perhaps stagnating with respect to growth.  What is F&N?  Partly we are like the Comprehensive Plan process; we’re about “nurturing, and being nurtured by, a place.”  But we really function as a kind of “incubator” for new ideas.  If we are a sort of “neo-natal unit” for new-born progressive ideas, what do we really offer someone who might approach us?  We enumerated our current and potential assets:%0a** We are possibility thinkers.  As such we…%0a*** Always apply “brain-storming rules”;%0a*** Ask what’s actable-upon in a concern, idea or proposal;%0a*** Ask “what’s the nugget?”%0a*** Are not defeated by the first threat (it was tried before; it’ll be too expensive; it 	overlaps ongoing activities elsewhere, etc., etc.).%0a** Got a bright idea? Bring it!  If you will, we…%0a*** Will avoid nay-saying;%0a*** Will ease/facilitate communications;%0a*** Will brainstorm who might know how to help;%0a*** Will provide some knowledge of comparable projects in other nearby towns;%0a*** Will as necessary try to direct a proposer to potential grantwriters.%0a** As an example, we considered the germinal Emerson Hall proposal—to push along necessary projects to bring back the upper level of our Town Hall from being “the place that time forgot” to a condition encouraging its use by townspeople as a function room/theatre.  From discussion at the Town annual meeting we now know that the Town strategy is to contribute annually to a reserve account (probably not enough per year to succeed); until there is enough to carry through simultaneously the several major aspects of the project (roof, insulation, windows) before the lesser but more visible parts of the project (acoustics, décor, furnishings) are addressed.  A Maine Community Foundation/Community Building Grant was suggested—it may be for the wrong kind of community “building”.  Anne Romans indicated that grants are available for improving public buildings, usually on a matching grant basis (which might work if the Town has $50,000 in the bank).  Wouldn’t someone in the MMA development office know a lot about it.  Sandra and Deane Richardson were mentioned as townspeople who could be helpful.%0a# ''Bubble Up.''%0a** Otter House has some needs. They are visioning—what can we do for them?%0a** Some of our people will be at the next Castine Days meeting of the Merchants Association on 4/21.  There should be a Farmers Market table at that event.  With a sign (Gerol)? A handout/flyer (in the works)?%0a** A propos of “care-share” investigations, George mentioned the “Parish Nurse” program in use in a number of larger congregations, nationwide; some variant might work in Castine, not necessarily church-based, keeping the scale of the service small and intimate.  Much as the accounting for health-care and assistance projects would seem to require an at least Peninsula-sized population base in order to be fiscally viable, a concern was expressed as well for projects which would be smaller and involve direct service by neighbors.%0a** A negative story was heard regarding a hospital trip for a stent which had to be accomplished with small children in tow, for lack of an emergency child care arrangement.%0a** Interest continues in a foot trail/bike trail from Castine to Penobscot.%0a** Colin offered to draft a newsletter/flyer for flexible use…%0a%0a…and adjourned the meeting at 5:25 p.m.%0a%0aRespectfully submitted,%0a%0aGeorge Bland%0aRecording Secretary, pro tem%0a
time=1239991052
author:1239991052=Colin Powell
csum:1239991052=Added styling
diff:1239991052:1239990961:minor=9,10c9,10%0a%3c # ''Maggie’s Future Emphasis and Report.''  Gil has received emails from Maggie requesting the group’s advice about her preferred emphasis at this point.  Should she/we look into further Cabot funding?  Maggie feels she can see further work to be done on the BH Peninsula dimension of “care-share.”  Consensus was that, with her report due May 15, we should await the report, making a determination about further paid work at that point.  If we have the opportunity to shape the sort of report we want from Maggie, one thought was that it would be helpful if Maggie could include a comprehensive Directory of BH Peninsula F&N leadrs/mtg schedules/projects and their leaders.  (Inter-town cooperation is a largely new phenomenon and should be easy to do; such a directory will assist everyone.)%0a%3c # ''What Is “Friends and Neighbors”?''  Colin voiced some questions, arising from a concern that the group may be in a rut already, perhaps not doing its presumed job correctly, and perhaps stagnating with respect to growth.  What is F&N?  Partly we are like the Comprehensive Plan process; we’re about “nurturing, and being nurtured by, a place.”  But we really function as a kind of “incubator” for new ideas.  If we are a sort of “neo-natal unit” for new-born progressive ideas, what do we really offer someone who might approach us?  We enumerated our current and potential assets:%0a---%0a> # Maggie’s Future Emphasis and Report.  Gil has received emails from Maggie requesting the group’s advice about her preferred emphasis at this point.  Should she/we look into further Cabot funding?  Maggie feels she can see further work to be done on the BH Peninsula dimension of “care-share.”  Consensus was that, with her report due May 15, we should await the report, making a determination about further paid work at that point.  If we have the opportunity to shape the sort of report we want from Maggie, one thought was that it would be helpful if Maggie could include a comprehensive Directory of BH Peninsula F&N leadrs/mtg schedules/projects and their leaders.  (Inter-town cooperation is a largely new phenomenon and should be easy to do; such a directory will assist everyone.)%0a> # What Is “Friends and Neighbors”?  Colin voiced some questions, arising from a concern that the group may be in a rut already, perhaps not doing its presumed job correctly, and perhaps stagnating with respect to growth.  What is F&N?  Partly we are like the Comprehensive Plan process; we’re about “nurturing, and being nurtured by, a place.”  But we really function as a kind of “incubator” for new ideas.  If we are a sort of “neo-natal unit” for new-born progressive ideas, what do we really offer someone who might approach us?  We enumerated our current and potential assets:%0a23c23%0a%3c # ''Bubble Up.''%0a---%0a> # Bubble Up.%0a
host:1239991052=127.0.0.1
author:1239990961=Colin Powell
diff:1239990961:1239990870:=1,3c1,3%0a%3c ! Castine Friends & Neighbors Meeting of Thursday, April 16, 2009%0a%3c !! Minutes%0a%3c %0a---%0a> Castine Friends & Neighbors Meeting of Thursday, April 16, 2009%0a> Minutes%0a> %0a11,22c11,22%0a%3c ** We are possibility thinkers.  As such we…%0a%3c *** Always apply “brain-storming rules”;%0a%3c *** Ask what’s actable-upon in a concern, idea or proposal;%0a%3c *** Ask “what’s the nugget?”%0a%3c *** Are not defeated by the first threat (it was tried before; it’ll be too expensive; it 	overlaps ongoing activities elsewhere, etc., etc.).%0a%3c ** Got a bright idea? Bring it!  If you will, we…%0a%3c *** Will avoid nay-saying;%0a%3c *** Will ease/facilitate communications;%0a%3c *** Will brainstorm who might know how to help;%0a%3c *** Will provide some knowledge of comparable projects in other nearby towns;%0a%3c *** Will as necessary try to direct a proposer to potential grantwriters.%0a%3c ** As an example, we considered the germinal Emerson Hall proposal—to push along necessary projects to bring back the upper level of our Town Hall from being “the place that time forgot” to a condition encouraging its use by townspeople as a function room/theatre.  From discussion at the Town annual meeting we now know that the Town strategy is to contribute annually to a reserve account (probably not enough per year to succeed); until there is enough to carry through simultaneously the several major aspects of the project (roof, insulation, windows) before the lesser but more visible parts of the project (acoustics, décor, furnishings) are addressed.  A Maine Community Foundation/Community Building Grant was suggested—it may be for the wrong kind of community “building”.  Anne Romans indicated that grants are available for improving public buildings, usually on a matching grant basis (which might work if the Town has $50,000 in the bank).  Wouldn’t someone in the MMA development office know a lot about it.  Sandra and Deane Richardson were mentioned as townspeople who could be helpful.%0a---%0a> * We are possibility thinkers.  As such we…%0a> ** Always apply “brain-storming rules”;%0a> ** Ask what’s actable-upon in a concern, idea or proposal;%0a> ** Ask “what’s the nugget?”%0a> ** Are not defeated by the first threat (it was tried before; it’ll be too expensive; it 	overlaps ongoing activities elsewhere, etc., etc.).%0a> * Got a bright idea? Bring it!  If you will, we…%0a> ** Will avoid nay-saying;%0a> ** Will ease/facilitate communications;%0a> ** Will brainstorm who might know how to help;%0a> ** Will provide some knowledge of comparable projects in other nearby towns;%0a> ** Will as necessary try to direct a proposer to potential grantwriters.%0a> As an example, we considered the germinal Emerson Hall proposal—to push along necessary projects to bring back the upper level of our Town Hall from being “the place that time forgot” to a condition encouraging its use by townspeople as a function room/theatre.  From discussion at the Town annual meeting we now know that the Town strategy is to contribute annually to a reserve account (probably not enough per year to succeed); until there is enough to carry through simultaneously the several major aspects of the project (roof, insulation, windows) before the lesser but more visible parts of the project (acoustics, décor, furnishings) are addressed.  A Maine Community Foundation/Community Building Grant was suggested—it may be for the wrong kind of community “building”.  Anne Romans indicated that grants are available for improving public buildings, usually on a matching grant basis (which might work if the Town has $50,000 in the bank).  Wouldn’t someone in the MMA development office know a lot about it.  Sandra and Deane Richardson were mentioned as townspeople who could be helpful.%0a24,29c24,29%0a%3c ** Otter House has some needs. They are visioning—what can we do for them?%0a%3c ** Some of our people will be at the next Castine Days meeting of the Merchants Association on 4/21.  There should be a Farmers Market table at that event.  With a sign (Gerol)? A handout/flyer (in the works)?%0a%3c ** A propos of “care-share” investigations, George mentioned the “Parish Nurse” program in use in a number of larger congregations, nationwide; some variant might work in Castine, not necessarily church-based, keeping the scale of the service small and intimate.  Much as the accounting for health-care and assistance projects would seem to require an at least Peninsula-sized population base in order to be fiscally viable, a concern was expressed as well for projects which would be smaller and involve direct service by neighbors.%0a%3c ** A negative story was heard regarding a hospital trip for a stent which had to be accomplished with small children in tow, for lack of an emergency child care arrangement.%0a%3c ** Interest continues in a foot trail/bike trail from Castine to Penobscot.%0a%3c ** Colin offered to draft a newsletter/flyer for flexible use…%0a---%0a> * Otter House has some needs. They are visioning—what can we do for them?%0a> * Some of our people will be at the next Castine Days meeting of the Merchants Association on 4/21.  There should be a Farmers Market table at that event.  With a sign (Gerol)? A handout/flyer (in the works)?%0a> * A propos of “care-share” investigations, George mentioned the “Parish Nurse” program in use in a number of larger congregations, nationwide; some variant might work in Castine, not necessarily church-based, keeping the scale of the service small and intimate.  Much as the accounting for health-care and assistance projects would seem to require an at least Peninsula-sized population base in order to be fiscally viable, a concern was expressed as well for projects which would be smaller and involve direct service by neighbors.%0a> * A negative story was heard regarding a hospital trip for a stent which had to be accomplished with small children in tow, for lack of an emergency child care arrangement.%0a> * Interest continues in a foot trail/bike trail from Castine to Penobscot.%0a> * Colin offered to draft a newsletter/flyer for flexible use…%0a
host:1239990961=127.0.0.1
author:1239990870=Colin Powell
diff:1239990870:1239990870:=1,36d0%0a%3c Castine Friends & Neighbors Meeting of Thursday, April 16, 2009%0a%3c Minutes%0a%3c %0a%3c We were convened at 4:12 p.m. by the grand vizier.%0a%3c Present: Anne Romans, Emma Sweet, Gene Bland, Gil Tenney, Betsy Lieser, Brooke Tenney, George Bland; Colin Powell.  Barbara Griffiths was ill; Ann Miller was otherwise engaged but reportedly “moving forward.”%0a%3c %0a%3c Rather than focusing on projects (the Farmers’ Market group had just met), discussion in this meeting addressed the following points:%0a%3c %0a%3c # Maggie’s Future Emphasis and Report.  Gil has received emails from Maggie requesting the group’s advice about her preferred emphasis at this point.  Should she/we look into further Cabot funding?  Maggie feels she can see further work to be done on the BH Peninsula dimension of “care-share.”  Consensus was that, with her report due May 15, we should await the report, making a determination about further paid work at that point.  If we have the opportunity to shape the sort of report we want from Maggie, one thought was that it would be helpful if Maggie could include a comprehensive Directory of BH Peninsula F&N leadrs/mtg schedules/projects and their leaders.  (Inter-town cooperation is a largely new phenomenon and should be easy to do; such a directory will assist everyone.)%0a%3c # What Is “Friends and Neighbors”?  Colin voiced some questions, arising from a concern that the group may be in a rut already, perhaps not doing its presumed job correctly, and perhaps stagnating with respect to growth.  What is F&N?  Partly we are like the Comprehensive Plan process; we’re about “nurturing, and being nurtured by, a place.”  But we really function as a kind of “incubator” for new ideas.  If we are a sort of “neo-natal unit” for new-born progressive ideas, what do we really offer someone who might approach us?  We enumerated our current and potential assets:%0a%3c * We are possibility thinkers.  As such we…%0a%3c ** Always apply “brain-storming rules”;%0a%3c ** Ask what’s actable-upon in a concern, idea or proposal;%0a%3c ** Ask “what’s the nugget?”%0a%3c ** Are not defeated by the first threat (it was tried before; it’ll be too expensive; it 	overlaps ongoing activities elsewhere, etc., etc.).%0a%3c * Got a bright idea? Bring it!  If you will, we…%0a%3c ** Will avoid nay-saying;%0a%3c ** Will ease/facilitate communications;%0a%3c ** Will brainstorm who might know how to help;%0a%3c ** Will provide some knowledge of comparable projects in other nearby towns;%0a%3c ** Will as necessary try to direct a proposer to potential grantwriters.%0a%3c As an example, we considered the germinal Emerson Hall proposal—to push along necessary projects to bring back the upper level of our Town Hall from being “the place that time forgot” to a condition encouraging its use by townspeople as a function room/theatre.  From discussion at the Town annual meeting we now know that the Town strategy is to contribute annually to a reserve account (probably not enough per year to succeed); until there is enough to carry through simultaneously the several major aspects of the project (roof, insulation, windows) before the lesser but more visible parts of the project (acoustics, décor, furnishings) are addressed.  A Maine Community Foundation/Community Building Grant was suggested—it may be for the wrong kind of community “building”.  Anne Romans indicated that grants are available for improving public buildings, usually on a matching grant basis (which might work if the Town has $50,000 in the bank).  Wouldn’t someone in the MMA development office know a lot about it.  Sandra and Deane Richardson were mentioned as townspeople who could be helpful.%0a%3c # Bubble Up.%0a%3c * Otter House has some needs. They are visioning—what can we do for them?%0a%3c * Some of our people will be at the next Castine Days meeting of the Merchants Association on 4/21.  There should be a Farmers Market table at that event.  With a sign (Gerol)? A handout/flyer (in the works)?%0a%3c * A propos of “care-share” investigations, George mentioned the “Parish Nurse” program in use in a number of larger congregations, nationwide; some variant might work in Castine, not necessarily church-based, keeping the scale of the service small and intimate.  Much as the accounting for health-care and assistance projects would seem to require an at least Peninsula-sized population base in order to be fiscally viable, a concern was expressed as well for projects which would be smaller and involve direct service by neighbors.%0a%3c * A negative story was heard regarding a hospital trip for a stent which had to be accomplished with small children in tow, for lack of an emergency child care arrangement.%0a%3c * Interest continues in a foot trail/bike trail from Castine to Penobscot.%0a%3c * Colin offered to draft a newsletter/flyer for flexible use…%0a%3c %0a%3c …and adjourned the meeting at 5:25 p.m.%0a%3c %0a%3c Respectfully submitted,%0a%3c %0a%3c George Bland%0a%3c Recording Secretary, pro tem%0a
host:1239990870=127.0.0.1
